Devops ebook (#23137)
dotnet/docs: docs/architecture/devops-for-aspnet-developers/actions-build.md

---
title: Deploy an app to App Service - DevOps with .NET and GitHub Actions
description: Deploy a .NET app to Azure App Service, the first step for DevOps with .NET and GitHub Actions.
author: colindembovsky
ms.date: 03/04/2021
---
# Deploy an app to App Service - DevOps with .NET and GitHub Actions

> [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) allow you to automate workflows in response to events that are triggered in GitHub. Common workflows include Continuous Integration (CI) workflows, but Actions can be used to automate other processes such as sending out welcome emails when people join a repositorysitory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) allow you to automate workflows in response to events that are triggered in GitHub. A common workflow is Continuous Integration (CI), but Actions can automate other processes. For example, sending welcome emails when people join a repository.
```

> To explore how you can move code to the cloud, you'll build a GitHub Actions workflow file for the Simple Feed Reader app you've already deployed to Azure App Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To explore moving code to the cloud, you'll build a GitHub Actions workflow file. The workflow file will be used for the Simple Feed Reader app you've already deployed to Azure App Service.
```

> To explore how you can move code to cloud, you are going to build a GitHub Actions workflow file for the Simple Feed Reader application you have already deployed to Azure App Service.

Author: Hey @scottaddie I generally try avoid contractions like "you'll" - what's the general guidance on this for the doc?

> To explore how you can move code to cloud, you are going to build a GitHub Actions workflow file for the Simple Feed Reader application you have already deployed to Azure App Services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To explore how you can move code to cloud, you are going to build a GitHub Actions workflow file for the Simple Feed Reader application you have already deployed to Azure App Service.
```

In this article, you will:
> [!div class="checklist"]

> * Learn the basic structure of a GitHub Action workflow YAML file.
> * Use a template to create a basic build workflow that builds the .NET app and executes unit tests.
> * Publish the compiled app so that it's ready for deployment.

## Workflow structure

Workflows are captured in YAML files and all have the following things:

- a `name`
- a trigger, defined by an `on` section

> - one or more `job` sections, composed of one or more `steps`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- one or more `job` sections composed of one or more `steps`
```

- optional attributes such as `environment` variables

> Jobs are run on _runners_. You can use _hosted runners_, which are spun up by GitHub during the workflow and then thrown away. Hosted runners are great because you don't have to maintain your own build infrastructure. For workflows that require a specific build environment, or for running workflows on a private network, you can also use _private_ runners. To create a private runner, you can install the runner on any machine that supports .NET.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jobs are run on _runners_. You can use _hosted runners_, which are spun up by GitHub during the workflow and then thrown away. Hosted runners are great because you don't have to maintain your own build infrastructure. For workflows that require a specific build environment, or for running workflows on a private network, you can also use _private_ runners. To create a private runner, install the runner on any machine that supports .NET.
```

> Jobs are run on _runners_. You can use _hosted runners_ which are spun up by GitHub for the duration of the workflow and then thrown away. Hosted runners are great because you don't have to maintain your own build infrastructure. For workflows that require specific build environment, or for running workflows on a private network, you can also use _private_ runners. To create a private runner, you can install the runner on any machine that supports .NET.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Jobs are run on _runners_. You can use _hosted runners_, which are spun up by GitHub during the workflow and then thrown away. Hosted runners are great because you don't have to maintain your own build infrastructure. For workflows that require specific build environment, or for running workflows on a private network, you can also use _private_ runners. To create a private runner, you can install the runner on any machine that supports .NET.
```

Each `job` will specify what runner GitHub should use to execute the `steps`. You can also specify dependencies between jobs using the `needs` attribute. Deployments jobs can also specify an `environment` to target.

> `Steps` can be as simple as inline commands or they can be Actions. Most CI workflows will have a combination of `run` steps (for executing scripts) and Actions. Actions are pulled into the workflow by referencing the Action repo (and optionally a tag or commit hash for specific verions) and specifying any parameters using the `with` keyword.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`Steps` can be as easy as inline commands or they can be Actions. Most CI workflows will have a combination of `run` steps (for executing scripts) and Actions. Actions are pulled into the workflow by referencing the Action repo (and optionally a tag or commit hash for specific versions) and specifying any parameters using the `with` keyword.
```

> [!TIP]
> You can read more about GitHub Actions YAML syntax [here](https://docs.github.com/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions).

## Create a basic build workflow

> One important principle of effective DevOps is to build once, deploy many times. You are going to start by creating a workflow that will build a basic .NET application. In the next step, you will publish the output so that you are ready to deploy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One important principle of effective DevOps is to build once, deploy many times. You'll start by creating a workflow to build a basic .NET app. In the next step, you'll publish the output to prepare for deployment.
```

> 1. Navigate to your GitHub repo and click on Actions tab.

Reviewer: Per the style guide, use "select" instead of "click".

```suggestion
1. Navigate to your GitHub repository and select the **Actions** tab.
```

> 1. GitHub detects that there is .NET code in the repo and suggests a .NET workflow template. Click `Set up this workflow` to create a new YAML workflow file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. GitHub detects that there's .NET code in the repository and suggests a .NET workflow template. Select **Set up this workflow** to create a new YAML workflow file:
```

> 1. Navigate to your GitHub repositorysitory and select the **Actions** tab.
> 1. GitHub detects that there's .NET code in the repositorysitory and suggests a .NET workflow template. Select **Set up this workflow** to create a new YAML workflow file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your GitHub repository and select the **Actions** tab.
1. GitHub detects that there's .NET code in the repository and suggests a .NET workflow template. Select **Set up this workflow** to create a new YAML workflow file:
```

    ![Creating a new workflow](./media/actions/build/new-action.jpg)

>     **Figure 1** Creating a new workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Figure 1**: Creating a new workflow.
```

> 1. Commit the file onto the `main` branch. Since you have defined a trigger condition for *commits to main*, this commit should trigger the workflow to run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Commit the file onto the `main` branch. Since you've defined a trigger condition for *commits to main*, this commit should trigger the workflow to run.
```

    ![Commit the YAML file](./media/actions/build/commit-workflow.jpg)

>     **Figure 2** Commit the YAML file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Figure 2**: Commit the YAML file.
```

1. Click on the **Actions** tab again. You should see a running workflow. Once the workflow has completed, you should see a successful run.

    ![Successful build view](./media/actions/build/build-action-success.jpg)

>     **Figure 3** Successful build view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Figure 3**: Successful build view.
```

1. Opening the logs, you can see that the .NET build succeeded and the tests ran and passed.

    ![Checking the logs](./media/actions/build/build-action-success-logs.jpg)

>     **Figure 4** Checking the logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Figure 4**: Checking the logs.
```

> [!NOTE]
> If any of the tests fail, the workflow will fail.

> ## Disecting the Workflow File

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Dissecting the Workflow File
```

Let's have a look at the workflow YAML file that you have so far:

```yml
name: .NET

on:
  push:
    branches: [ main ]
  pull_request:
    branches: [ main ]

jobs:
  build:

    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v2
    - name: Setup .NET
      uses: actions/setup-dotnet@v1
      with:
        dotnet-version: 5.0.x
    - name: Restore dependencies
      run: dotnet restore
    - name: Build
      run: dotnet build --no-restore
    - name: Test
      run: dotnet test --no-build --verbosity normal
```

You can see the following:

1. There is a `name` that names the workflow.

> 1. The `on` object specifies when this workflow should run. This workflow has two events that trigger it: `push` to `main` and `pull_request` to `main`. Anytime anyone commits to main or creates a Pull Request (PR) to main, this workflow will execute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The `on` object specifies when this workflow should run. This workflow has two events that trigger it: `push` to `main` and `pull_request` to `main`. Each time someone commits to `main` or creates a pull request (PR) to `main`, this workflow will execute.
```

> 1. The `on` object specifies when this workflow should run. This workflow has two events that trigger it: `push` to `main` and `pull_request` to `main`. Any time anyone commits to main or creates a Pull Request (PR) to main, this workflow will execute.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. The `on` object specifies when this workflow should run. This workflow has two events that trigger it: `push` to `main` and `pull_request` to `main`. Anytime anyone commits to main or creates a Pull Request (PR) to main, this workflow will execute.
```

> You can see the following:
> 
> 1. There is a `name` that names the workflow.
> 1. The `on` object specifies when this workflow should run. This workflow has two events that trigger it: `push` to `main` and `pull_request` to `main`. Each time someone commits to `main` or creates a pull request (PR) to `main`, this workflow will execute.
> 1. There is a single `job` called `build`. This build should run on a hosted agent. `ubuntu_latest` specifies the most recent Ubuntu hosted agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice the following things:

1. There's a `name` that names the workflow.
1. The `on` object specifies when this workflow should run. This workflow has two events that trigger it: `push` to `main` and `pull_request` to `main`. Each time someone commits to `main` or creates a pull request (PR) to `main`, this workflow will execute.
1. There's a single `job` called `build`. This build should run on a hosted agent. `ubuntu_latest` specifies the most recent Ubuntu hosted agent.
```

1. There are five steps:

>     1. `acions/checkout@2` is an action that checks out the code in the repo onto the runner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. `acions/checkout@2` is an action that checks out the code in the repository onto the runner.
```

>     1. `actions/setup-dotnet@v1` is an action that sets up the .NET CLI. This step also specifies a `name` attribute for the logs as well as the `dotnet-version` parameter within the `with` object.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. `actions/setup-dotnet@v1` is an action that sets up the .NET CLI. This step also specifies a `name` attribute for the logs and the `dotnet-version` parameter within the `with` object.
```

>     1. Three `run` steps that execute `dotnet restore`, `dotnet build` and `dotnet test`. `name` attributes are also specified for thest `run` steps to make the logs look pretty.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. Three `run` steps that execute `dotnet restore`, `dotnet build` and `dotnet test`. `name` attributes are also specified for these `run` steps to make the logs look pretty.
```

## Publishing the output

> Now that you have successfully built and tested the code, you will want to add steps that publish the output so that you can deploy the web app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you've successfully built and tested the code, add steps that publish the output so you can deploy the web app.
```

> 1. Navigate to the `.github/workflows/dotnet.yml` file and click the pencil icon to edit it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the `.github/workflows/dotnet.yml` file and select the pencil icon to edit it.
```

    ![Edit the YML file](./media/actions/build/click-edit.jpg)

>     **Figure 5** Edit the YML file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Figure 5**: Edit the YAML file.
```

>     **Figure 5**: Edit the YML file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Figure 5**: Edit the YAML file.
```

> 1. Add the following step at the bottom of the file, below the `Test` step, to run the `dotnet publish` command to publish the website:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following `Publish` step below the `Test` step. The step runs the `dotnet publish` command to publish the web app:
```

    ```yml
      - name: Test
        run: dotnet test --no-build --verbosity normal # <-- this is the current bottom line

      - name: Publish
        run: dotnet publish SimpleFeedReader/SimpleFeedReader.csproj -c Release -o website
    ```

> 1. This publishes the web app to a folder on the hosted agent. We now want to _upload_ the site as a build artifact that we can deploy to Azure. To do this activity, we are going to use an existing action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. This `Publish` step publishes the web app to a folder on the hosted agent. Now you'll want to _upload_ the site as a build artifact that can be deployed to Azure. To complete this activity, you'll use an existing action.
```

> 1. This publishes the web app to a folder on the hosted agent. We now want to _upload_ the site as a build artifact that we can deploy to Azure. To do this, we are going to use an existing action.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. This publishes the web app to a folder on the hosted agent. We now want to _upload_ the site as a build artifact that we can deploy to Azure. To do this activity, we are going to use an existing action.
```

> 1. On the list of Actions in the Actions Helper pane on the right, search for `artifact` and click on the `Upload a Build Artifact (By actions)` action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the list of actions in the **Actions Helper** pane on the right, search for `artifact`. Select the `Upload a Build Artifact (By actions)` action.
```

    ![Accessing the Actions helper](./media/actions/build/search-upload-artifact.jpg)

>     **Figure 6** Accessing the snippet helper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Figure 6**: Accessing the snippet helper.
```

> 1. Edit the version to `v2.2.2` to display a sample snippet. Click the clipboard icon to copy the snippet and paste it into the workflow below the publish step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Edit the version to `v2.2.2` to display a sample snippet. Select the clipboard icon to copy the snippet and paste it into the workflow below the publish step.
```

    ![Copying a snippet](./media/actions/build/copy-snippet.jpg)

>     **Figure 8** Copying a snippet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Figure 8**: Copying a snippet.
```

1. Edit the YAML for this step to look as follows:

>   ```yml

Reviewer: Tab-indent this entire code block, including the code fences. This will fix the visual separation from the line item that I currently see:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10702007/110996357-70972a80-8341-11eb-9c50-2e869ce4c8d2.png)

      - name: Upload a Build Artifact
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v2.2.2
        with:
          name: website
          path: SimpleFeedReader/website/**
          if-no-files-found: error
  ```

1. Commit the file.

> 1. Once the workflow completes, you will be able to see the artifact from the Home tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Once the workflow completes, you'll see the artifact from the **Home** tab:
```

> 1. Once the workflow completes, you'll be able to see the artifact from the **Home** tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Once the workflow completes, you'll see the artifact from the **Home** tab:
```

    ![Viewing artifacts in the summary page](./media/actions/build/view-uploaded-artifact.jpg)

>     **Figure 8** Viewing artifacts in the summary page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Figure 8**: Viewing artifacts in the summary page.
```
